---
layout: post
title:  "Goodbye Facebook"
categories: programmer
tags: [DFI, Facebook, Cold Turkey]
---

I'm finally going to leave Facebook. I've been slowly transitioning away from it and focusing my energy into my own [site](http://toomanynames.com), but held on to it under the pretense of advertizing to "friends" when I write new articles. My original plan was to get my website a sizable following then leave. Then I started asking myself: How much? Will I ever know? Why do I want to know that many many people want to know what I have to say? Why am I seeking that validation? Would I be willing to sacrifice  my integrity for it?

If my website is my world, my domain, then do I really want to model it off of Facebook. Do I want it to be concerned with mass appeal? We have a world where politicians, artists, and even activists sell themselves for recognition until they sellout. Even us everyday folk arrange, groom, and photoshop ourselves for the market. We compare, looking at others to prove we are worth more, worth as much, or just worthy at all. Facebook has made that market open 24 hours a day and given us the tools to curate our "merchandise" like never before. As I build my site, do I really want it to be born out of that same thought process? As [Jiddu Krishnamurti](http://youtu.be/ICATOVPc4a8?t=6m44s) once said, "It is no measure of health to be well adjusted to a profoundly sick society." If I can control this world, let it be a little refuge. A bold new place where I'm willing to be myself. Speak from the heart. Speak thoughtfully, but not with the intention to attract others with mental gymnastics. I promise you I'll fail. It seems us humans have a deeply ingrained disposition to be concerned with recognition in the world around us. That certainly might be necessary for our survival, but I feel those instincts that keep us alive don't always bring us peace.

One of the other reasons I, and many I've spoken with, hold on to Facebook is the fear of loosing connections. It is wrapped in the benign veneer of "oh I just want to keep in touch with friends. I have so many and I move alot." Seems harmless enough. But what I'm actually saying is if I add an aquaintance on facebook it solidifies a relationship that's otherwise destined to crumble.

What's been paired with leaving Facebook in my mind is leaving the benefits of modern communication all together. It makes sense that I would feel it to be synonymous. After all, almost all of my adult life I've been a user. I signed up for Facebook in high school, back when you still had to be invited. As I left home to discover the bigger world, Facebook remained my autobiographer, my secretary, my messenger, my loyal friend who would listen and let me present myself as I wanted to. It's been more about me than my friends. As I reflect on the many people I've met over the last seven years, I realized the ones that really matter I can reach via other means. It is also a disservice to those friends that I've used a "like" to replace a phone call. I'm sorry.  

Often, my cynicism for Facebook is translated into cynicism for the sad, but inevitable fate of human connection. It's because Facebook has insterted itself in our minds as the logical conclusion of communication. The evolution goes yelling, mail, telegram, telephone, internet, email, Facebook. But does it have to? When I'm saying I'm leaving Facebook, it doesn't mean I'm leaving the internet. I still have an email address. Shit, I have my own website. I'd just rather spend time on Wikipedia.

I'm not against technology or anything. I code for a living and it is an incredibly satisfying craft. I believe software can be useful. There are applications that can help you manage your finances, learn a language (computer or human), and help you with Math homework. Facebook is not one of them. Of course there are benefits to it. But it's cluttered information. A mix of birthday reminders, wedding pictures, interesting videos, selfies, news articles, and data driven advertisement. Yes, remember Facebook is making money off every second you put into it. After all it is a business. [The data Facebook collects on users was worth roughly $100 per person in 2012](http://www.slate.com/articles/technology/technology/2012/04/facebook_ipo_how_much_money_does_the_social_network_make_off_each_user_.html). Facebook is selling your attention. It's selling every click you make, every second you look at a page, every computer you access it from, and even things you've deleted. They know you better than yourself. With this data they find ways to get you more absorbed, more engaged, more addicted. It is often said that the Facebook user is not a customer, but a product. The real customer is the advertisers. This is the financial arrangement you've made with Facebook. Do you think it's a good deal?  

But this is beyond money. [Even beyond my information being shared with the government without my knowledge](http://youtu.be/dTuxoLDnmJU). (After all I still use google and rarely twitter.) It's about what I value. For me, it's the people I love and who take the trouble to love me. I need to step away from the computer and work on myself, if not for myself for them. Maybe I'll even read a book! :) To you, my facebook friends, I love and care about many of you deeply and would like to stay connected. My email is rudysback@gmail.com. I'm not at all off the internet; so there are many other ways you can get a hold of me.

This sense of urgency to act on a long held view of mine was inspired by [something](http://zenhabits.net/career/) I saw posted by someone I care alot about...on Facebook. But luckily for me we are connected in the real world and I know this will not be the last time I will hear her insights.

P.S. I'll keep my Facebook account activated for a while so folks can see this post, but will not be really using it beyond that. Also, please don't feel like I'm judging you for using Facebook. It's just not working for me. But for those of you who believe its going to die, or fall out of favor, I dare you to quit. 